# Sim's Newsboat Files

## RSS Subscriptions

Check out `.newsboat/urls` for a full list of my RSS subscriptions.

### Tags

My RSS are all tagged, and the `.newsboat/urls` file has them grouped by what I arbitrarily consider to be their "primary" tag. Each subscription may have additional tags beyond this primary tag.

Most tags represent some kind of interest (such as `Tech` being for technology), but a few hold special meaning. These are:

- `My Content`: Things I run personally, such as my own blog and my youtube channels.
- `Friends`: Things my friends run.
- `Announcements`: Things I listen to *particularly closely* for announcements, such as for upcoming Python releases, or for Humble Bundle releases.
- `Uncategorized`: I can't come up with a good place to put these, so I just put them all together into one big glob of random stuff.

## OPML Files

Subscriptions are also automatically exported to OPML format to `dotfiles/newsboat/autogenerated-opml/`. This is intended to be subscribed to on Github, allowing my [Inoreader](https://www.inoreader.com/) account to synchronize with my Newsboat RSS subscriptions.

Subscribe to them, by all means!

### What are each OPML file for?

Since OPML lacks tags, the subscriptions on the exported OPML file alone is difficult to structure. To solve this, I wrote a script that parses my `urls` file for tags and splits the exported OPML file.

- The `ORIGINAL.xml` is this original full OPML file.
- The `NO-TAGS.xml` contains subscriptions that lack a tag.
- All other `.xml` files are for each tag. Since subscriptions can have multiple tags, there can be overlap between these files.

These OPML files are autogenerated by running `autogen.sh` at the root of the repository.

**Another option is that I'd have to construct some elaborate title system and rely on the rules created within Inoreader to interpret my titles. I'll consider doing that in the future if this file-split system runs into problems.**


